Good job making it this far things are going to get more and more fun starting in this section because
we're now learning real tools that real companies use and that will get you hired and development
also becomes a lot faster because we're using these tools to make us build websites faster and better.
So let's talk about react. What do we have before react?
Well as I've mentioned before we had jQuery. jQuery was as you remember very imperative writing
code was like mixing ingredients sequentially.
If this happens then do this and then do that.
But also if this happens then do this and it created a lot of inconsistencies.
And if you remember the DOM manipulation section Well that is really really difficult and constantly keeping
track of what changed and what to change is a huge mess and it creates for a very slow development.
And as your website gets more and more complex it becomes very very hard to scale which means it becomes
very hard for teams of developers to manage it.
Now react was created at Facebook as you know Facebook is a pretty big app and a lot of things need
to happen for it to work well.
And they had this problem and they created react as a way to solve this issue and be able to have a tool
that allows them to build websites in a nice predictable way that you can have multiple developers working
on it at the same time.
And I like to use the analogy of a bread machine using react is kind of like that you just throw in
the ingredients and react does all this magic underneath the hood and puts out a website.
So it's very reliable and very consistent.
And it does one thing really really well and that is the view it manages to make our websites the DOM
change in predictable ways that is easy to scale and easy to manage.
And the beauty of react is that because it's just the view it doesn't necessarily mean it's only for
browsers.
As a matter of fact a react can be used with mobile devices to build native apps.
It's used in virtual reality apps.
You can build desktop apps with react anywhere that has a view well react can use it.
And big companies as I mentioned before Facebook and Instagram use react and Netflix uses react whenever
you browse through movie choices well that's using react underneath the hood.
It's a very very useful tool and in very high demand.
So I'm excited to talk about react and teach you this valuable skill in this section.
Now in order to understand react there's a few things that we want to go over and these are principles
that are very valuable that have been learned over the years by developers.
One is the idea of thinking in components up to this point we've just built websites.
Everything is just one JavaScript file one CSS file one HTML file.
But wouldn't it be nice if the web was a network of these small components.
Think of them as Lego blocks where everybody builds a specific Lego block and you just combine these
Lego blocks to create your website.
That is the idea that react established let's use this as an example.
You first have atoms which as you can see here are icons and little small indivisible elements on
your website such as images.
There's some text and you divide these into atoms.
From there you form molecules or combine atoms that have similar functionality such as the navigation
bar down here.
You combine individual atoms to add some functionality and then you have organisms again a little bit
bigger than molecules that combines to a bigger scale functionality.
And then finally you have templates.
The combination of these organisms to give you an idea of how your app or website should look.
Finally you have your pages.
That is the page of your app.
And if you think in components as this image demonstrates well you're able to build small little components
that you can reuse and put on different parts of the webpage.
For example this back-button here if I build a react component that is the back-button I can now use it on
multiple pages.
And I don't have to rewrite the code if I wanted the navigation bar to be used in different areas of
the app.
Well again I don't need to rewrite the code I write it once and I can reuse it as a matter of fact I can even
share it with the world.
And this idea of components makes react AMAZING because right here I have a website that has react
components built by somebody and we can reuse these.
And it's not just CSS and HTML.
But real functionality such as navigation bars and sign-in forms.
I can just download this react component and attach it to my website and because of the way react is
structured it doesn't really need to know about the rest of the webpage it's just its own lego block
that works by itself by reducing dependencies on other parts of the web site.
I can just plug this anywhere I want.
Another important concept with react is the idea of one way data flow.
The best way to describe it is by looking at this tree like structure in here you see that we have a
parent some children and then those children have their own children and those children have their own
children.
And the idea with react is that data flows from top to bottom and never the other way around that is
if these red let's call them components change.
Well in that case only their children know about the change.
The parents don't really care about the change because well the direction of the data flow is just
always downstream.
So if we go back to the idea of components if we had a website built on components and this was the page
and these were organisms and then molecules then atoms.
Well in that case the red components change and then only the ones below it.
As you can see here in blue know of this change and based on that they will act accordingly and change
as well.
Now without actually having a problem it's hard to understand this concept but trust me this is a very
important concept that react brought in.
It creates a lot of really nice bug free code and it is an idea that you'll understand more and more
as we start to code in react.
The next thing is the idea of Virtual DOM you know what the DOM is the Document Object Model.
And we also learned that one of the most important things as a developer is to minimize the amount of
DOM manipulation that we do because well web browsers has to have to work really really hard to achieve
that and it reduces the performance of the webpage plus increases
bugs. I think this image demonstrates what react does really well beforehand.
We were the painters we told the DOM exactly what to do.
Remove this element then put this in and then also add this and color this this way with react
We have this react bot and the react bot creates something called the Virtual DOM, Virtual DOM is
just a JavaScript object and this JavaScript object that just describes our website.
The current state of the website and we just give it that object to react and the react bot will automatically
make changes to the DOM and paint the picture in the most optimum way possible.
So we just tell it hey this is the object.
This is what we want
in the DOM and the react takes care of DOM manipulation for you.
Remember how annoying it was to do query selector-all then grab elements by id and then doing all these event handlers
well react takes care of that.
So again the virtual DOM is just a copy of the DOM that's in a JavaScript object and then react underneath
the hood just changes the view and that's why it's able to work outside of browsers and you can use
things like VR and and mobile devices because react is the machine and what the canvas is on
well we can change the canvas to whatever we want.
Finally react has a great ecosystem.
It is probably one of the biggest ecosystems in JavaScript right now and there are so many tools that
work with react as a matter of fact the developer community is so big that any problem you have there
is most likely a chance that somebody else has had it and has posted it on the Internet and you can
find solutions for.
You can find react packages in npm you can use it with node there's web pack and babel that you
can use with it.
It's just a really good ecosystem that uses the latest JavaScript technology to build websites in a
really nice elegant way.
Now one thing that I want to warn you about in this section we're going to see code like this.
And it's going to look very strange at first.
It's like the same way when you looked at JavaScript the first time.
It seemed like a whole new different world.
It will when you first look at this but trust me knowing what you know about JavaScript this becomes
really really easy.
You have classes that extends the react component and this is how we build components.
We have constructor again that we've seen in advanced objects and then each class has a mandatory render
function that you just tell it what this clock should render.
And as you can see it looks like HTML isn't it.
It's not exactly HTML but the syntax is very similar.
So even by looking at this you see that this clock component.
Again this lego block just returns a Hello World
h1 tag with an h2 that says it is and then the time again just to give you a heads up you're going
to hear words like props and state and react components but these are just language syntax that you'll learn.
And it's actually quite easy once you get used to it.
So don't worry this is all going to make sense
by the end of it. And you know what we're going to be building a pretty cool app.
It's called Robo Friends and we're going to build this app that well searches through your robot friends
and you can find their contact information.
And as you can see it updates live.
It's super fast.
It's responsive.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
And we're going to build this pretty fast just to show you how powerful react is.
All right.
I'm really excited to get into this section.
You're going to have a lot of fun.
I'll see you in the next one.